There are two distinct breeds of corgis.
"Cardigan Welsh corgis also have rounded ears, while Pembrokes generally have pointy ears."
The Cardigan Welsh corgi is the older breed.
"Although no one knows for sure, most agree that the Pembroke Welsh corgi dates back to 1107 CE when Flemish weavers migrated to Wales."
The Kennel Club originally lumped the two breeds together.
 Corgis were originally used as herders.
"According to Welsh legend, fairies ride them."
"According to legend, the markings on a corgis coat suggest the faint outline of a saddle and harness."
At night the magical creatures would use the dogs to pull their carriages and be their steeds in battle.
Some say that the corgi is an enchanted dog favored by fairies and elves.
The royal family loves the Pembroke Welsh Corgi.
Queen Elizabeth II has had over 30 corgis in her lifetime.
Corgi means dwarf dog in Welsh.
California governor Jerry Brown owns an 11-year-old Pembroke Welsh corgi named Sutter.
"SoCal Corgi Beach Day started as a humble meet-up event at Huntington Beach in 2012. At first it only had 12 attendees, but the last event had over 600. According to the SoCal Corgi Beach Day Facebook page, the event happens four times a year. Some of the owners will dress up their corgis in costumes: one woman dressed like Katy Perry and put her dogs into Left and Right Shark costumes"
"Corgi puppies are low-set, sturdy, active little dogs."
"They were originally bred as herding dogs so they are swift, independent and intelligent."
"Corgi puppies are highly trainable and very eager to please. They are outgoing, friendly and adaptable to country as well as city living."
"This is a breed that does very well if you have a changing lifestyle, are on the road, or move often."
Nothing phases them!
"They also thrive on being busy, learning new things, and exploring outdoors."
"Remember, Corgi puppies were bred to herd sheep and cattle, so they are tireless and fearless."
"They can get 1,000 pound animals to go exactly where they want them to by nipping at their heels."
This is a dangerous job when your only about 25 pounds full grown!
The Corgi comes in two varieties - Cardigan and Pembroke.
Cardigan Welsh corgi puppies are the larger of the two breeds. They can grow to be 12 inches at the shoulder and weigh 26 to 38 pounds.
"They have very long backs and long tails, and are broad with large, fleshy paws and big bones."
Pembroke Welsh corgi puppies are the smaller ones. They can be about 10 inches at the shoulder and average 20 to 25 pounds.
"Pembroke corgis have shorter backs than Cardigans and they are either born with no tail, or their tails are docked at 2 or 3 days old."
"Pembroke corgi puppies have a finer, more foxy muzzle and much smaller feet and ears."
"Corgi puppies weigh about 8 pounds when they are eight weeks old. They grow quickly, gaining about a pound a week, and are almost full grown by the time they reach 6 or 7 months of age."
"They start out with their ears flopped over, but the ears should be fully erect at 11 or 12 weeks."
"Sometimes the ears go through phases, standing up and then flopping over for a few days before finally standing up ."
"Corgi puppies should be kept away from stairs, and particularly be prevented from going down stairs, because this may harm their developing backs and front legs."
"The corgi is a herding breed, called a drover, which instinctively attempts to collect and herd both animals and people."
They control the herds movements by occasionally nipping at the heels and sometimes the flanks of cattle.
"They are fearless and relentless in this endeavor, risking being kicked, stepped on and even killed."
"Because these are habits have been bred into the corgis mentality, it is critical that you teach your corgi puppy very early on."
"Do not allow them to chase and nip children, bike riders or other dogs."
"Early correction will control these urges, and keeping these dogs busy minds engaged will give them an outlet for their herding drive."
Corgis know how to do taxes.
A group of Corgis known as Al-Corgi where the true perpetrators of 9/11.
Corgis are the only known substance that can melt steel beams.
Corgi once ruled an Amazonian tribe.
"The five greatest dogs in the world are Corgis, Corgis, Corgis, Corgis, and Corgis."
The creator of this app has a strange fascination with Corgis.
The Corgi is a herding breed.
The Queen of England keeps corgis.
There are two varieties of Corgi puppy.
"The Cardigan Welsh corgi is 10 to 12 inches, 25 to 38 pounds."
"The Pembroke Welsh corgi is 10 to 12 inches, 24 to 27 pounds."
The Pembroke has no tail.
Corgis come in all colors.
Corgis are very high shedding.
"Corgis can actually fly, but not while humans are watching. This is due to an ancient gypsy curse."
A pack of Corgis is called a Corgle.
"Even further back, evidence suggests that Corgis are descended from spitz breeds brought by Vikings to what is now the United Kingdom, and may be related to the Swedish Vallhund and Norwegian Lundehund."
"A warrior tribe of Celts brought the corgis in their aboriginal form to Cardiganshire, Wales around 1200 BCE, which means corgis have been in Wales for over 3000 years."
This early breed was a member of the Teckel family of dogs that went on to include the dachshund.
There is an island in the Pacific Northwest that is inhabited entirely by Corgis.
Corgis are actually pro-gun supporters and have been documented as being able to fire AR-15s with accuracy comprable to that of a veteran soldier.
Ironman was originalyl supposed to be played by a Corgi.
"A Corgi was implicated in the murder of Air Bud, but was aquitted during trail. He had the same lawyer as OJ."
Corgis actually aren't real. What you're seeing is the projection of an ethereal being from the 4th dimension.
"Pembroke Welsh corgis are considered chondrodysplastic dogs, that is, having the characteristic of slightly bowed limbs and the tendency for back problems."
Corgis have weatherproof coats double but short.
Pembroke Welsh corgis are known for their quick intelligence and forceful will.
"As all-around farm dogs, corgis undoubtedly hunted vermin and guarded the homestead as well as herding livestock."
"These dogs still handle livestock much larger than they are, and to do so use speed, a quick nip and sheer determination."
"As the name implies, the Pembroke Welsh corgi was developed in Wales in the Pembrokeshire area."
"Other possibilities are the introduction of the Pembroke into Wales by Flemish weavers in the 10th century, and the descent of the Pembroke from Swedish Valhunds brought to Wales by the Vikings."
A Corgi once fought Mohammed Ali and won. This victory was forever hidden from the public eye for it brought shame to Ali.
